idiosyncratic serendipitous
Nostalgia how do you choose the right
word for the word of the day when you're
a toast Master's grammarian expanding
our vocabularies and using powerful
words is a great skill set to have as
speakers it will allow us to connect
deeper with our audiences and this video
is for all of you garans or future
garans to give you five tips on how you
can come up with the perfect word of the
day for your toast Master's meeting now
a great word of the day is usually
something that's tied into the theme of
the meeting so my first tip is to use an
AI tool like chat GPT to come up with a
word that is related to the theme for
example if your theme for the meeting
was board games you can type into chaty
BT hey chat BT can you give me 30 words
that are related to The Toast Masters
theme of board games these words are for
the Garian role I'm trying to come up
with a word of the day and chat gbt in
no time will deliver you that list of
words that you can choose from if you're
not such a fan of the AI tools you can
go old school and use a thesaurus to
come up with key words related to the
theme and find other words that are
maybe a little bit less common which you
can introduce to the club as your word
of the day day a great word of the day
should be challenging it should be
something that we don't often use in
everyday conversation but not so
challenging that nobody ever uses the
word that you choose my second tip for
coming up with a great word is to listen
carefully in everyday conversations
you're having and when you hear a word
that is used that catches your attention
because it's not common start a note
list in your phone
and make note of that particular word
even if you don't know the meaning of it
at the time this note will allow you to
go and look that up in the future and if
it was a word that was brand new for you
that caused some confusion or Intrigue
of course that's going to cause interest
for others as well so this is a great
way to document those words you're
hearing in real time my next tip is to
use Miriam Webster's word of the day
function they've already come up with
this idea of a word of the day I'll
include the link down in the video notes
but this is a great feature where it
randomly chooses a word for you the
great thing is you can go back a few
days as well and see previous words
because as I mentioned earlier you do
want to try to ensure that the word is
somehow related to the theme of the
meeting Riz greed flation the it
why not use a new word or one of these
terms that has been recently added to
the dictionary in the last few years
because words are constantly being added
every year and by bringing forward some
of these new words one you'll be modern
but two you're helping your Club stay
aware of new lingo that is being used
and plus you'll be like one of the cool
kids using some of the these new terms
but that is another great way to add a
creative word of the day by introducing
something that is actually a brand new
word my final tip which can be a great
educational piece for your Toast Masters
Club is to use a commonly misused word
this is another link that I will include
down in the video description but there
are words out there which people have
used time and time again and they don't
even realize they're using this word
incorrectly examples of commonly misused
words are often ones that sound similar
except a cc PT and except e ex C PT
defining the difference or choosing one
of those words and explaining same with
principle and principle obviously these
sound the same but there are two
different spellings which mean two
completely different things by choosing
one of these words especially if you've
caught other club members using them
incorrectly in the past this is a great
teaching moment and will help your Club
sharpen up their vocabulary I hope this
quick video on how to choose a great
word of the day if you are a gamaran at
Toast Masters has been helpful if you
have not already done so please
subscribe to my channel and make sure
you check out the video that is popping
up on your screen because this is a live
example of me giving a grimian role or
doing the Garian role at my local Toast
Masters Club and I think watching it
will give you a lot of value for taking
on that role thanks so much everyone for
watching I will catch you on the next
video